Hello everybody and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to have an overview of the dope sheets editor.
Now this is the type of editor that is going to look incredibly familiar.
If we have a look at the bottom of the screen at the moment we have ourselves the timeline.
Now the timeline is going to look very much like the dope she headed when we get to it.
Now there are a couple of ways of getting to.
Eventually we will just modify our view that we've got at the moment.
However if we go to the very top and click on animation we can go to the animation work space.
We're not currently using this and we can adjust this bottom area.
Now you may be forgiven for thinking that was another timeline but no this is the dope she Ed..
So you look at it and go Well hang on a minute let's go back to layout Okay what's going on here.
Well it looks like if we select our items in our scene.
Well what's the difference here.
We've got circles and squares on their side.
Okay.
Well there is a bit more difference than that's essentially the dope she Ed gives us far more granular
control over what is happening than just the timeline itself.
So let's switch out the timeline ed for the dope sheets switch that's out there.
I'm going to lift this up so we can see a bit more of our scene.
Now you may notice here that these have certain drop downs we can just click on them and they'll go
down and well we've got a lot of information there you may be wondering what this look is all about.
Well if you remember we named our two main bones that we're using to control our lamp itself.
We've got the look bone which is that circle one there.
Sorry the spare and then the big circle one stem or base one of those two so if we go into Poe's mode
we can select those individually and we can see the name changes accordingly there as well.
And if we shift select both of them then we will also get all of the information and we can drop that
down and see what's happening and where.
Now one of the things you will notice here is that we have orange dots everywhere.
And these are key frames but we've also got these orange backgrounds and we've also got at the very
top middle clicking to drag around.
We've also got orange dots at the top.
So what do these all mean.
Well let's close the base and look down and start at the very top of the hierarchy.
So in summary something is happening on these frames frame one frame twelve frame eighteen frame twenty
five hex cetera et cetera.
And we can see that was specifically talking about an armature being moved.
Now bear in mind you can animate other things as well not just an armature but we can move objects.
We'll be moving the camera in a bit as well so we will see that under this summary at the same time.
Now we're talking about the armature action and it's specifically referring to two bones that we're
controlling and in this case we're controlling where that control bone is and what its rotation is as
well.
And we can see that in both aspects here.
Now these orange lines are quite clearly an indicator that something is continuing.
And if we have a look let's drill in on the x location of the look which is the sphere just here so
let's only have that one selected.
Now if we look along here we've got an orange continuous line all the way up to 100 and if we left click
and just pull across the top here you'll see that the location the x location doesn't change until that
point.
So to demonstrate that even more if we go to this middle one here which is currently nought point nought
to eight then just change it.
Press the eye key to key that in.
We can see that that continuous change there is now broken.
I'm going to undo that because I don't want to mess up my previous animation.
So that's key.
It gives you a nice overview of what's happening.
And one of the biggest things here is to take away the fact that this is when things are happening.
So one of the things that I really like doing with the dope she is just controlling when things happen.
So for instance if we go ahead and press the space by her to play it and we decide that's okay it takes
far too long to land.
So we go to 1 0 1 what we can then do is minimize the look and actually pull everything back so we can
select the key frames that we want in this case I'm just going to key in the look area and you'll notice
that the top 1 also highlights which would indicate to me that that is the only thing that this top
level on the summary is referring to.
And then I can just press G and move it to a different time so I can have it looking at us sooner then
we can go ahead we can select the base down here and perhaps pull that back as well.
Now let's see what that looks like when we go ahead and play it.
So we've got it jumping up and then it lands much quicker than it did before and that is a far better
experience.
Okay.
So in summary are dope sheets editor allows us to finally control when movements are happening and this
is going to become critical when we start refining our animation over the next couple of lectures to
produce our final animation itself.
The other thing that the vote sheets editor allows us access to is a couple of other views.
For instance if we wanted to make multiple actions this is very important.
If you were having an idle animation you can set that as an idle action and then you could have a walking
animation or a jumping animation and have them as individual actions.
That's a much better set up than having actions spread out as you might have seen before.
Just on one continuous timeline.
We've got the shape key editor and we have some more specialist modes that we can switch the dope sheet
into as well.
But for the moment that concludes our overview of the dope sheets.
Incredibly useful being able to manipulate when things are happening so when those key frames happen.
So that's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the next one.